---
slug: /soldered-nula-beginner-kit-arduino/breadboard-fundementals
title: 0.1 Breadboard Fundementals
id: nula-beginner-arduino-breadboard-fundementals
hide_title: False
---

<CenteredImage src="/img/nula-beginner-kit-arduino/mini-breadboard.webp" caption="Classic mini breadboard" width="1800px"/>

The goal of this page is to introduce you to the **breadboard**, one of the most important tools you will use when working with electronic components. A breadboard allows you to build and test circuits **without soldering**, making it perfect for fast prototyping, learning and experimenting.

<InfoBox> **NULA MINI** board's dimensions fit perfectlly on a regular sized breadboard!</InfoBox>

<SuccessBox>
**In this documentation you will learn:**
    - What a bread is and why it is used
    - How rows and columns inside a breadboard are connected
    - How to place components and wires correctly
</SuccessBox>

---

## What is a breadboard?
A **breadboard** is a reusable platform for building electronic circuits. Instead od soldering components together permanently, you simply plug wires, resistors, sensors and microcontroller pins into the breadboard holes. Inside the breadboard are metal clips that electrically connect certain holes together. 

This allows you to:
    - Quickly change connections
    - Fix mistakes easily
    - Reuse components many times

---

## Breadboard layout
Although a breadboard may look confusing at first, its structure is actaully very logical. It is divided into two main areas:

### 1. Power rails
The long rows on the **left and right sides** of the breadboard are called **power rails**. These rows are usually marked with **+ (red)** and **-(blue)** lines.

    - All holes in a single power rail column are electrically connected
    - They are typically used for **VCC (3.3V or 5V)** and **GND**


<CenteredImage src="/img/nula-beginner-kit-arduino/breadboard-power-rails.png" alt="Breadboard power rails highlighted" caption="Breadboard power rails highlighted" width="1800px"/>

<InfoBox> Power rails are somethimes split in the middle. Always double-check with a wire or continuity tester if you are unsure. </InfoBox>

### 2. Terminal strips
The center area of the breadboard is where most components are placed, This area is divided by the **middle gap**, which is very important.

    - Each **row of 5 holes** is electricall connected
    - Rows on the left side of the gap are **not** connected to the rows on the right side

<CenteredImage src="/img/nula-beginner-kit-arduino/breadboard-central-rails.png" alt="Breadboard power rails highlighted" caption="Breadboard central rails highlighted with conncted holes marked in red" width="1800px"/>
<InfoBox>The gap is designed so that components like **integrated circuits** can sit across it, keeping their pins electrically separate.</InfoBox>

---

## How connections work
Before you start using the breadboard you need to remember a few things:

<WarningBox>Holes connected in the same row are electrically connected, so if you connect pins of the same component on the same row, they will be in a short circuit. For example, placing the pins of a LED in the same row will result in shorted pins and damage to the LED.</WarningBox>

<CenteredImage src="/img/nula-beginner-kit-arduino/breadboard-central-led-shorted.png" alt="Breadboard power rails highlighted" caption="Pins of a LED placed on the same rail, this will result in a electrical short and damage to the component" width="500px"/>


---

## Example of a correct connection
To correctly use a breadboard, each pin of a component must be placed in a **different row** so that there are no electrical shorts.

<CenteredImage src="/img/nula-beginner-kit-arduino/DSC00199.JPG" alt="Breadboard power rails highlighted" caption="Correct LED placement. Each pin is in a separate row, allowing current to flow through the LED." width="1800px"/>

In this example, the LED is placed so that its two legs are on **different rows**
 of the breadboard. One row can be connected to power (GPIO pin from NULA MINI in this example) (trough a resistor) and the other to ground. This forces current to pass through the LED, allowing it to light up safely and correctly.