---
slug: /soldered-nula-beginner-kit-arduino/led-blinking
title: 1.1 LED Blinking 
id: nula-beginner-arduino-led-blinking
hide_title: False
---

The goal of this example is to teach you how to control an LED with the **Soldered NULA RP2040** board. This is usually the very first project when learning microcontrollers because it introduces you to the most fundemental concept: making a pin go HIGH (on) or LOW (off). 

**In this documentation you will learn:**
    - How to assign a pin to a variable for easier code management.
    - How to configure a pin as an output using `pinMode()`.
    - How to control pin states with `digitalWrite()` (HIGH and LOW)
    - How to use `delay()` to pause program execution

**Hardware required:**
    - 1x Soldered NULA RP2040 board
    - 1x Breadboard
    - 1x LED (any color)
    - 1x 330 ohm resistor
    - Jumper wires

---

## Putting the components toghether
We will start this example by connecting all the components. Just follow the steps provided below for a no hassle experience.

### 1. Put the board on the breadboard
<InfoBox>For this step you need to be familiar with the internal structure of a breadboard and its power rails. To familiarize, check out [**PLACEHOLDER**] documentation page.</InfoBox>

If your board has male connectors soldered to its pins, we recommend placing it on the breadboard to make it easier and tidyer for yourself to connect other components.

<CenteredImage src="/img/under_construction.png" alt="placeholder" caption="NULA on breadboard" width="600px"/>

If not, no worry. You can just connect the board with components by wire. It will be a bit messier but will do the job just fine.


### 2. Connect the LED to the NULA board
Take a piece of jumper wire and connect one end to a available GPIO pin on the board. For the needs of this example, we will be using **IO12** pin. Connect the other end to any free (meaning nothing is connected to it!) power rail on the breadboard.


<CenteredImage src="/img/under_construction.png" alt="placeholder" caption="connection 1" width="600px"/>

Take one 330 ohm resistor and connect one end to the same power rail as the wire.Connect the other end of the resistor to some other free power rail. 

<CenteredImage src="/img/under_construction.png" alt="placeholder" caption="connection 2" width="600px"/>

Take the LED and inspect its pins, there should be one longer than the other like this:

<CenteredImage src="/img/nula-beginner-kit-arduino/led.jpg" alt="IO visualised" caption="Visualisation of input/output modes" />

Connect the longer one (Anode) to the power rail that is connected to the other end of the 330 ohm resistor.

<CenteredImage src="/img/under_construction.png" alt="placeholder" caption="connection 2" width="600px"/>

The shorter end of the LED (Cathode) needs to be connected to the **GND** pin on the NULA board.

---

## Assigning pins to variables

Instead of writing the pin number directly into every function call, you can store it in a variable for better readability. In this example, the variable **pinNumber** is assigned the value **12**, which corresponds to the **IO12** pin on the NULA board. If you decide to change the LED to another pin later, you only need to modify the variable in one place, and the rest of the code will still work.

You can basically use any IO marked pin on the board, below is the picture with all IO pins that you can use on the NULA board:

<CenteredImage src="/img/under_construction.png" alt="placeholder" caption="All available IO pins on NULA2040" width="600px"/>

## Configuring pins as inputs or outputs

Every IO pin on the NULA RP2040 can act as either an input (reading signals from buttons, sensors, ect.) or an output (sending signals to LEDs, buzzers, motors, ect.). In this project, since the LED is a component we want to control, the pin must be set as an output. By default, pins don't "know" whether they should listen for signals or send out signals, this is where the `pinMode()` function comes in.

The function  `pinMode(pinNumber, mode)` tells the microcontroller how a specific pin should behave. If you set the mode to **OUTPUT**, the pin is able to provide voltage (HIGH) or no voltage (LOW) to connected components such as LEDs, buzzers, or motors. If you set it to **INPUT**, the pin listens for signals coming from the outside, such as the state of a pushbutton or the level of a sensor. There is also **INPUT_PULLUP**, which activates an internal resistor to keep the pin in a known state when nothing is connected.

<CenteredImage src="/img/nula-beginner-kit-arduino/input-output-explained.png" alt="IO visualised" caption="Visualisation of input/output modes" />


## Controlling pin states with digitalWrite()

Once the pin has been configured as an output, you can control its state with the `digitalWrite()` function. The syntax is `digitalWrite(pinNumber, value), where **value** can be either **HIGH** or **LOW**.

Writing **HIGH** sets the pin in a logic high level (3.3V on the NULA board), which allows current to flow through the connected circuit, in this case, turning the LED on.

Writing **LOW** sets the pin to 0V, which stops the current flow and turns the LED off.


## Pausing program execution

If you simply turned the LED on and off in rapid succession, the changes would happen so quickly that your eyes would not detect them. To make the blinking visible, you will use the `delay()` function. The syntax is `delay(milliseconds)`, where the number represents how long the program should pause.

In this example, the variable **delayMS** is set to 1000, which means each delay lasts one second. The code first turns the LED on with **digitalWrite(pinNumber, HIGH)**, then pauses with **delay(delayMS)**. After that, it turns the LED off with **digitalWrite(pinNumber, LOW)** and pauses again for one second. This loop continues forever, producing a visible blinking pattern.

<CenteredImage src="/img/under_construction.png" alt="placeholder" caption="Video of led blinking" width="600px"/>

