---
slug: /soldered-nula-beginner-kit-arduino/slider-potentiometer-led-fade
title: 2.2 Slider Potentiometer LED Fade
id: nula-beginner-arduino-slider-potentiometer-led-fade
hide_title: False
---

The goal of this example is to teach you how to use the analog features of the **Soldered NULA RP2040** board. Unlike **digital pins**, which can only read **HIGH or LOW**, **analog pin**s allow the board to measure a **continuous range of voltages**. This makes it possible to read the position of sensors like potentiometers, joysticks, or light sensors.

in this project we will use a **sliding potentiometer** to controll the brightness of an **LED**. The potentiometer outputs a voltage between **0V** and **3.3V**, depending on the position of the slider. The board's **ADC (Analog to Digital Converter)** reads this voltage and converts it into a number between **0** and board's ADC resolution -1, in case of NULA board, **4095**. That number is then written to the LED pin using **PWM (Pulse Width Modulation)**, which makes the LED appera brighter or dimmer.

<InfoBox>All GPIO pins on the NULA board can be used as analog output pins (PWM), but not all GPIO pins can be used as analog input pins (ADC). Here are all the ADC pins highlighted:</InfoBox>
<CenteredImage src="/img/under_construction.png" alt="placeholder" caption="All ADC pins highlighted" width="600px"/>
---

## Putting the components together

## Putting the components together

### 1. Put the board on the breadboard
<InfoBox>For this step you need to be familiar with the internal structure of a breadboard and its power rails. To familiarize, check out [**PLACEHOLDER**] documentation page.</InfoBox>

If your board has male connectors soldered to its pins, we recommend placing it on the breadboard to make it easier and tidier for yourself to connect other components.

<CenteredImage src="/img/under_construction.png" alt="NULA on breadboard" caption="NULA on breadboard" width="600px"/>

If not, no worry. You can just connect the board with components by wire. It will be a bit messier but will do the job just fine.

---

### 2. Connect the LED to the NULA board
Take a piece of jumper wire and connect one end to an available GPIO pin on the board. For this example, we will be using **IO12** pin. Connect the other end to any free power rail on the breadboard.

<CenteredImage src="/img/under_construction.png" alt="LED wiring 1" caption="LED connection step 1" width="600px"/>

Take one 330 ohm resistor and connect one end to the same power rail as the wire. Connect the other end of the resistor to another free power rail.  

<CenteredImage src="/img/under_construction.png" alt="LED wiring 2" caption="LED connection step 2" width="600px"/>

Take the LED and inspect its pins, there should be one longer than the other. The longer one is the **Anode (+)** and the shorter one is the **Cathode (-)**.

<CenteredImage src="/img/nula-beginner-kit-arduino/led.jpg" alt="LED polarity" caption="LED pinout" />

Connect the **Anode** (long leg) to the power rail with the resistor. Connect the **Cathode** (short leg) to **GND** on the NULA board.

---

### 3. Connect the sliding potentiometer
The potentiometer has 6 pins, for the needs of this example we will just be using 3 of them. **OUTA**, **VCCA** and **GND**