soldered-documentation/docs/sensors/hall-effect-sensor/arduino_library/hall-effect-sensor_arduino_5.md, before:

---
slug: /hall-effect-sensor/arduino/Qwiic analog example
title: Hall Effect Sensor - Measuring strength of magnetic field with Qwiic analog
  sensor (example)
id: hall-effect-sensor-arduino-5
hide_title: false
---

This page contains a simple example with function documentation on how to take measurements using the SI7211-B-00-IV Hall effect sensor and the Qwiic connection.

## Qwiic Analog output example
```cpp
#include "Hall-Effect-SOLDERED.h"

// To change the reading, place a magnet in front of the sensor

// Declare sensor object on default address
HallEffect_Analog_EasyC hall;

void setup()
{
    // Initialize serial communication
    Serial.begin(115200);

    // Initialize sensor via EasyC (required!)
    hall.begin();

    // If you wish to use a custom address (e.g. 0x33), use
    // hall.begin(0x33);
}

void loop()
{
    // Read raw measurement
    uint16_t hallRawReading = hall.getRawReading();
    
    // Read milli Teslas
    float hallMilliTeslas = hall.getMilliTeslas();

    // Print sensor values to serial
    Serial.print("Analog Hall Effect raw sensor reading: ");
    Serial.println(hallRawReading);
    Serial.print("Which is: ");
    Serial.print(hallMilliTeslas);
    Serial.println(" mT\n");
    
    // Wait a bit until next measurement
    delay(1000);
}
```

<FunctionDocumentation
  functionName="HallEffect_Analog_EasyC hall()"
  description="Creates analog sensor object"
  returnDescription="none"
/>

<FunctionDocumentation
  functionName="hall.begin()"
  description="Initializes analog sensor object"
  returnDescription="Returns true if initialization is successful, false otherwise."
  parameters={[
    { type: 'uint16_t', name: 'address', description: "Optional, used for changing breakout address, default is 0x30" }
  ]}
/>

<FunctionDocumentation
  functionName="hall.getRawReading()"
  description="Requests a new reading from the SI7211-B-00-IV sensor."
  returnDescription="Returns int value from output pin"

/>

<FunctionDocumentation
  functionName="hall.getMilliTeslas()"
  description="Calculates the value of magnetic induction from current reading"
  returnDescription="Returns float value that represents magnetic induction in milli Teslas"
  
/>

<CenteredImage src="/img/hall-effect-sensor/qwiic_no_magnet.png" alt="Sensor when magnet is not present" caption="Sensor when magnet is not present" width="700px" />
<CenteredImage src="/img/hall-effect-sensor/analog_serial_no_magnet.jpg" alt="Serial Monitor output" caption="Serial Monitor output" width="700px" />
<CenteredImage src="/img/hall-effect-sensor/qwiic_magnet.png" alt="Sensor when magnet is present" caption="Sensor when magnet is present" width="700px" />
<CenteredImage src="/img/hall-effect-sensor/analog_serial_magnet.jpg" alt="Serial Monitor output" caption="Serial Monitor output" width="700px" />


---

## Full example

Try all of the above mentioned functions in this full example which measures the strenght of magnetic field.

<QuickLink 
  title="analogReadEasyC.ino" 
  description="Example file for using analog Hall effect sensor with easyC/Qwiic/I2C"
  url="https://github.com/SolderedElectronics/Soldered-Hall-Effect-Sensor-Arduino-Library/blob/main/examples/analogReadEasyC/analogReadEasyC.ino" 
/>

Commit message:

Add sidebar_label attribute to every doc

soldered-documentation/docs/sensors/hall-effect-sensor/arduino_library/hall-effect-sensor_arduino_5.md, after:

---
slug: /hall-effect-sensor/arduino/Qwiic analog example
title: Hall Effect Sensor - Measuring strength of magnetic field with Qwiic analog
sidebar_label: Measuring strength of magnetic field with Qwiic analog
  sensor (example)
id: hall-effect-sensor-arduino-5
hide_title: false
---

This page contains a simple example with function documentation on how to take measurements using the SI7211-B-00-IV Hall effect sensor and the Qwiic connection.

## Qwiic Analog output example
```cpp
#include "Hall-Effect-SOLDERED.h"

// To change the reading, place a magnet in front of the sensor

// Declare sensor object on default address
HallEffect_Analog_EasyC hall;

void setup()
{
    // Initialize serial communication
    Serial.begin(115200);

    // Initialize sensor via EasyC (required!)
    hall.begin();

    // If you wish to use a custom address (e.g. 0x33), use
    // hall.begin(0x33);
}

void loop()
{
    // Read raw measurement
    uint16_t hallRawReading = hall.getRawReading();
    
    // Read milli Teslas
    float hallMilliTeslas = hall.getMilliTeslas();

    // Print sensor values to serial
    Serial.print("Analog Hall Effect raw sensor reading: ");
    Serial.println(hallRawReading);
    Serial.print("Which is: ");
    Serial.print(hallMilliTeslas);
    Serial.println(" mT\n");
    
    // Wait a bit until next measurement
    delay(1000);
}
```

<FunctionDocumentation
  functionName="HallEffect_Analog_EasyC hall()"
  description="Creates analog sensor object"
  returnDescription="none"
/>

<FunctionDocumentation
  functionName="hall.begin()"
  description="Initializes analog sensor object"
  returnDescription="Returns true if initialization is successful, false otherwise."
  parameters={[
    { type: 'uint16_t', name: 'address', description: "Optional, used for changing breakout address, default is 0x30" }
  ]}
/>

<FunctionDocumentation
  functionName="hall.getRawReading()"
  description="Requests a new reading from the SI7211-B-00-IV sensor."
  returnDescription="Returns int value from output pin"

/>

<FunctionDocumentation
  functionName="hall.getMilliTeslas()"
  description="Calculates the value of magnetic induction from current reading"
  returnDescription="Returns float value that represents magnetic induction in milli Teslas"
  
/>

<CenteredImage src="/img/hall-effect-sensor/qwiic_no_magnet.png" alt="Sensor when magnet is not present" caption="Sensor when magnet is not present" width="700px" />
<CenteredImage src="/img/hall-effect-sensor/analog_serial_no_magnet.jpg" alt="Serial Monitor output" caption="Serial Monitor output" width="700px" />
<CenteredImage src="/img/hall-effect-sensor/qwiic_magnet.png" alt="Sensor when magnet is present" caption="Sensor when magnet is present" width="700px" />
<CenteredImage src="/img/hall-effect-sensor/analog_serial_magnet.jpg" alt="Serial Monitor output" caption="Serial Monitor output" width="700px" />


---

## Full example

Try all of the above mentioned functions in this full example which measures the strenght of magnetic field.

<QuickLink 
  title="analogReadEasyC.ino" 
  description="Example file for using analog Hall effect sensor with easyC/Qwiic/I2C"
  url="https://github.com/SolderedElectronics/Soldered-Hall-Effect-Sensor-Arduino-Library/blob/main/examples/analogReadEasyC/analogReadEasyC.ino" 
/>
