---
slug: /soldered-nula-beginner-kit-micropython/led-blinking
title: 1.1. LED Blinking
id: led-blinking
hide_title: true
---

<SectionTitle title="1.1. LED Blinking" backgroundImage="/img/arduino_bg.jpg" />

Upon starting to learn with microcontrollers, one of the first and most fundamental concepts is controlling the state of digital pins. Pins can either be HIGH (on) or LOW (off). As an introduction, this example shows how to control an LED with the **Soldered NULA Mini** board.

**At the end of this example you will learn:**
- How to configure a digital pin as an output to control its state
- How to use `time` module to pause program execution

---

**Parts required:**
- **Soldered NULA Mini Board**
- **Breadboard**
- **1 x LED (any color)**
- **1 x 330 Ohm resistor**
- **Some jumper wires**

## Putting the components together

<CenteredImage src="/img/under_construction.png" alt="Under construction" width="400px" />

- Depending on which type of pins you have on your NULA Mini board (male or female), you can insert it directly into the breadboard or connect the pins with jumper wires. 
- Before placing the LED on the breadboard, it's important to understand its polarity. LED has two legs: Long leg (anode = positive) and short leg (cathode = negative). 
- Place the LED on the breadboard so that each leg is in a different row. 
- Connect one end of resistor to the short leg of the LED and the other to the GND on your board. 
- Connect a jumper wire from the long leg of the LED to pin 5 on your board (or any other digital output pin).

## Code Example

To control the LED, we first need to import `Pin` from built in `machine` module, additionaly import `time` to create delays.

```python
from machine import Pin
import time
```

Store the pin number on which we connected the LED.

```python
pin_number = 5
```

Create a `Pin` object that will be used to control the actual pin on the board by passing in the pin number and specifying the pin to be an output. Second line initialy sets the pins voltage to low (0).

```python
led = Pin(pin_number, Pin.OUT)
led.value(0)
```

Start infinite loop that alternates between `high` state and `low` state on `led` pin object.

```python
while True:
    led.value(1)		# Turn LED on
    time.sleep(1)		# Pause for 1 sec
    led.value(0)		# Turn LED off
    time.sleep(1)		# Pause for 1 sec
```

## Full Example

<QuickLink 
  title="1.1_LED_Blinking.py" 
  url="https://github.com/SolderedElectronics/PRIMJER" 
/>