---
slug: /soldered-nula-beginner-kit-micropython/slider-fade-led
title: 2.2. Slider potentiometer fade LED
id: slider-fade-led
hide_title: true
---

<SectionTitle title="2.2. Slider potentiometer fade LED" backgroundImage="/img/arduino_bg.jpg" />

Unlike digital pins, which can only read HIGH or LOW pin state, analog pins allow us to measure varying voltage levels usually between 0V and 3.3V. The voltage measured is then assigned a numerical value by the microcontroller's **Analog-to-Digital Converter (ADC)**. For an example, **10-bit** ADC maps voltage value between 0V and 3.3V to a numerical value between 0 and 1023. **12-bit** ADC maps voltage to a value between 0 and 4095, and so on. This creates a smooth range of values that can be used to control things like LED brightness through **PWM** as shown in example on this page.

**At the end of this example you will learn:**
- How to read analog values using ADC
- How to control an LED using PWM

---

**Parts required:**
- **Soldered NULA Mini Board**
- **Breadboard**
- **1 x LED (any color)**
- **1 x 330 Ohm resistor**
- **1 x Slider potentiometer**
- **Some jumper wires**

## Putting the components together

<CenteredImage src="/img/under_construction.png" alt="Under construction" width="400px" />

- To connect an LED, connect the longer (positive) leg to the pin 5 via jumper wire, and shorter (negative) leg to GND via 330 Ohm resistor.
- Place the slider potentiometer on the breadboard and connect it according to this table:

| **Slider Potentiometer** | **NULA Mini** |
|---|---|
| VCCA / VCCB | 3.3V or 5V |
| GND | GND |
| OUTA / OUTB | IO4 (or any ADC pin) |

## Code Example

To read analog inputs from potentiometer, import `ADC` class in addition to the `Pin` class. We also import `PWM` class for controlling LED brightness.

```python
from machine import Pin, ADC, PWM
import time
```

Here we create `ADC` object for potentiometer on pin 4, and `Pin` object for LED on pin 5.

```python
potentiometer = ADC(Pin(4))
led = Pin(5)
```

Enable PWM output on the LED pin, and set PWM frequency. The frequency determines how fast the LED "blinks" in a cycle.

```python
led_pwm = PWM(led)
led_pwm.freq(5000)
```

To read the potentiometer voltage and convert it to **12-bit** value (0 - 4095) `potentiometer.read()` is constantly called in the loop. Read value is then used to set PWM duty cycle to control the LED brightness. Lower the value, lower the brightness and vice versa. Small delay is added at the end to avoid reading too fast.

```python
while True:
    pot_value = potentiometer.read_u16()
    led_pwm.duty_u16(pot_value)
    time.sleep(0.005)
```

## Full Example

<QuickLink 
  title="2.2_Slider_Potentiometer_Fade_LED.py"
  url="https://github.com/SolderedElectronics/PRIMJER" 
/>